Task #1: Linux Commands Practice (using man command)


1. Command: cat

Usage 1: cat hello.txt

Description: Prints the text contents of the file to the terminal.

Usage 2: cat -n hello.txt

Description: Number all output lines, starting from 1.

Usage 3: cat -b hello.txt

Description: Number non-blank output lines only.

Usage 4: cat -E hello.txt

Description: Displays a $ character at the end of each line.

Usage 5: cat -s hello.txt

Description: Suppresses repeated empty output lines into a single blank line.



2. Command: ls

Usage 1: ls

Description: Lists files and directories in the current working directory.

Usage 2: ls -l

Description: Displays files in a long listing format showing permissions, owner, size, and date.

Usage 3: ls -a

Description: Shows all files, including hidden files (dotfiles).

Usage 4: ls -h

Description: Prints human-readable file sizes (e.g., 1K, 234M, 2G).

Usage 5: ls -R

Description: Lists subdirectories recursively.



3. Command: cp

Usage 1: cp hello.txt copied.txt

Description: Copies a file from the source to the destination.

Usage 2: cp -r dir1 dir2

Description: Copies directories and their contents recursively.

Usage 3: cp -i hello.txt copied.txt

Description: Prompts before overwriting an existing destination file.

Usage 4: cp -u hello.txt copied.txt

Description: Copies only when the source file is newer than the destination file.

Usage 5: cp -v hello.txt copied.txt

Description: Verbose mode, explaining what is being done during the copy process.



4. Command: touch

Usage 1: touch hello.txt

Description: Creates an empty file if missing, or updates the timestamp if it exists.

Usage 2: touch -a hello.txt

Description: Changes only the access time of the file.

Usage 3: touch -m hello.txt

Description: Changes only the modification time of the file.

Usage 4: touch -c hello.txt

Description: Checks if a file exists but does not create it if it is missing.

Usage 5: touch -t 202601011200 hello.txt

Description: Sets a specific access and modification timestamp for the file.



5. Command: rm

Usage 1: rm copied.txt

Description: Deletes the specified file.

Usage 2: rm -r new-lab

Description: Deletes a folder and its contents recursively.

Usage 3: rm -rf os-lab

Description: Force deletes files and directories recursively without any prompts.

Usage 4: rm -i copied.txt

Description: Prompts the user for confirmation before removing each file.

Usage 5: rm -v copied.txt

Description: Verbose mode, showing a message for every deleted file.



6. Command: mkdir

Usage 1: mkdir new-lab

Description: Creates a new directory.

Usage 2: mkdir -p dir1/dir2

Description: Creates parent directories as needed.

Usage 3: mkdir -v new-lab

Description: Prints a message confirming the creation of the directory.

Usage 4: mkdir -m 777 new-lab

Description: Sets exact file mode/permissions during creation.

Usage 5: mkdir --help

Description: Displays the help manual and options for the mkdir command.



7. Command: pwd

Usage 1: pwd

Description: Prints the full absolute path of the current working directory.

Usage 2: pwd -L

Description: Prints the logical working directory, resolving symbolic links.

Usage 3: pwd -P

Description: Prints the physical working directory, ignoring all symbolic links.

Usage 4: pwd --help

Description: Displays a brief help message for the pwd command.

Usage 5: pwd --version

Description: Outputs the version information of the command.



8. Command: grep

Usage 1: grep "main" hello.txt

Description: Searches for and shows lines containing the specific text "main".

Usage 2: grep -i "main" hello.txt

Description: Ignores case distinctions during the search.

Usage 3: grep -v "main" hello.txt

Description: Inverts the match, showing all lines that do not contain the pattern.

Usage 4: grep -n "main" hello.txt

Description: Prints the line number alongside the output lines.

Usage 5: grep -c "main" hello.txt

Description: Prints only the count of matching lines instead of the actual lines.
